Welcome back in the next couple of videos we're going to learn about next.
Yes.
A really great tool if you want to build server side rendered apps and we're going to start off by installing
Nexxus and having everything set up.
And by the end of it you're going to see why it's such a popular tool.
So to get started let's open up our terminal and whatever text editor you have.
And just follow along we're going to make a directory we'll call LEAD next server side rendering.
I'm going to CD into that folder.
And from here we'll run our regular command which is NPM in it.
Dash y.
So to get our package.
Jaisalmer File.
We're going to open up our text editor.
Let's make the windows nice and pretty together.
There you go.
And in this package do some file we want to install a few things we want to install next.
The package obviously that's pretty self-explanatory but also react and react dumb.
And we've seen these packages before we're building we're building a re-act application that is has
server side rendered.
So we need the repackages let's install these.
Now while this is loading let's just go over a few things that next provides for us with next just like
create react up.
It includes all the things you need for you in order to build server side rendered apps.
It includes routing so that you can go from page to page.
It already has web packs set up for us.
You can use different types of CSSA features their support for typescript as well if you really want
to.
And there's just a ton more a ton of things that help you build server side applications.
Really really fast and you'll see right now how fast we can build this.
Let's go back to our folder and we see that we have everything downloaded.
The only thing we need to do now is change our command to say start in our scripts and we'll just say
Next see what what happens here.
I'm going to run NPM start.
I'm getting there and it says couldn't find a page's directory and this is a default with next.
It expects to see a page's directory here.
So let's just create that.
I'm going to say new folder
pages.
All right what do we run NPM start again.
All right look at that.
It's compiled successfully.
It kind of reminds us of CCRI react up.
We have everything set up it's ready and running on localhost 3000 we see that we have the pages folder
but also a dot next folder that just appeared again just like create re-act up.
It does a ton of things underneath the hood including having a distribution folder with all our bundles
already preset for us.
Amazing.
Now let's go to localhost and see what happens.
I mean we don't have anything in Page's folder but just let's go test it out.
I'm going to say localhost and four or four.
This page could not be found although we do have a really nice air because well we don't have any pages
yet.
So let's build one.
I'm going to create a new file and this is going to be called index dot J Yes.
Again the entry point of our app.
The first thing that a user is going to see and let's do something like this something that we've seen
in react before we're going to create an index component and this index component is going to return
actually list through a cleaner version of this.
Instead of using curly brackets we can use actual brackets so it just evaluates the expression inside
of it and within here we can just say that's div
and inside of this div we'll just have let's say a head or one of the S.R. magician.
All right let's just say that and see what happens.
Nothing's changed here.
We have the default export is not a rehab component.
And we see again it gives us really nice errors right away and tells us what we're doing wrong in this
case well we should have known that we need to export default index.
If I save this compile successfully and I have as S.R. magician here how crazy is that.
We didn't import react or react like we have before we simply wrote a component and we just exported
it.
And this is the beauty of next.
It does everything for you all the repetitive things they used to do.
You don't need to do that anymore.
All you need to do is just have components in your pages and these are going to be your pages.
For example we just created our home page our index component that renders everything automatically.
We've simply exported a simple Riak component index such as.
And yeah we could keep contesting this and create whatever components we want we want we can have our
own components our own reac components that we create anything we want just like we did on the front
end and all we need to do is just make sure that our component is the export default.
And next is smart enough to know that I'm just going to render this component for you and as you saw
next we'll just track errors and compile automatically and let us know anytime we've made a mistake.
There you have it.
We've set up next and everything is loading perfectly.
If I open up the network tab here and I refresh.
I see all the calls that I'm getting including the main japes index suggests that I'm requesting but
the cool thing about this is that if I open up view page source
we see that I know this is small so let's make it a little bit bigger.
We see that as part of the a shemale page that we received.
We have the H-1 SSR magician.
So it's already pre-rendered when we received this.
Now you see that we also have a few things that comes out of the box with one pack and the next set
up.
But for now we have a server side rendered up.
So let's do some more on the next video.